In the previous section, we already learn
about standard access list.
Next in this section, we area going to learn about extended access list.
But before that, we are going to learn about web server first.
For example, when we access facebook.com from
the browser,
actually we access the facebook server in the internet.
So here we will configure this server so we can access it from the browser in the client or pc.
Let’s start, open server 1, service, here
we can see http. Http is a web server.
And https is the secure version of http, so this is also web server. Here we can see that
by default, http and https is already on,
so actually, the web server is already active.
Next, we also able to change the display of the web server, here we can edit index.html.
Let’s change this. Welcome to Server 1,
save, yes, okay we have done on server 1,
Next let’s also change the display of server 2,
go to service, here http and https is already on,
let’s edit index.html, change it to
Welcome to server 2.
Let’s also change the display of server 3.
Go to service, http and https is already on,
and then edit index.html, let’s change this
to Welcome to server 3.
Now let’s access the web server from pc.
But if you remember, now we have access list
on router 2 that only allow from vlan 30.
So vlan 10 and vlan 20 will not able to access
the server.
Let’s unassign the access list first, here
we already in fa0/0, copy the command, no
and then paste the command,
Now let’s ping from the client to the server,
vlan 10 to server, failed, test again,
okay still failed, fast forward time, test again,
okay this is success, vlan 20 to the server,
success, vlan 30 to the server, also success.
Now let’s try to access the server from
web browser.
Put the ip address of the server here, let’s
say we want to access server 2, the ip address
is 192.168.1.20, okay here we can see that
we are success to access the web server of server 2.
But here we use http, this is not secure.
If we want to access https, we can use https
here.
So https:// and then the ip address of the
server, let’s say we want to access server 1,
so here 192.168.1.10,
Okay this is success.
Let’s also try to access from vlan 10, https://192.168.1.30,
this is server 3.
Okay this is also success.
Okay so now we understand about web server.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to learn about extended
access list.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.